
			  Olympia II 
			  ==========

		     Administrative Details


       Olympia, its rules, documentation and game text are
      Copyright 1993 by Rich Skrenta.  All rights reserved.


Route your email to the correct address:

    Orders:                      orders@olympia.rt.com

    Newspaper submissions:       times@olympia.rt.com

    Joining, questions,
    comments, bug reports,
    anything else:               olympia@rt.com

    Diplomatic email
    forwarding service:          <entity>@olympia.rt.com


Turn schedule
-------------

Turns are run weekly.  Orders are due Tuesday night at 6:00pm
Eastern U.S. time.  The turn is run Tuesday or Wednesday night.
Players should receive their turn reports by Thursday morning.

Late orders will queue for the next turn.  Beware!  Even if mailed
before the deadline, your message may take some time to get to the
order scanner.  Send your orders in early to avoid grief.

Sending orders ahead of time will also give you a chance to fix
mistakes reported by the order scanner.


Submitting Orders
-----------------

Orders should be sent to orders@olympia.rt.com.  This is an automatic
daemon which will scan the orders for syntax errors and queue them for
your units.

Orders must be of the following form:

	BEGIN player-number password
          .
          .  EMAIL or LORE commands
          .

        UNIT player-number
	  .
	  .  commands for player entity:  NAME, FORMAT or QUIT
	  .

	UNIT unit-number
	  .
	  .  commands for unit
	  .

	UNIT unit-number
	  .
	  .  commands for unit
	  .

	END

The Subject: line on your message is ignored.

BEGIN tells the order scanner what your player number is.  If you have
not set a password, you do not need to supply one.

UNIT replaces a set of orders for a unit.  Any pending orders for the unit
will be cleared, and the new orders sent in will queue up.  Orders that
are still executing for the unit will not be interrupted unless the
first order queued is the STOP order (see below).

Do not match an END for every UNIT command!  There should only be one END,
at the end of all of the UNIT sections.  The Olympia order parser will not
read beyond the END.

For example, here is a set of orders for player Fate [812], who has
two characters, Osswid [5499] and Candide [1269]:

	BEGIN 812

	UNIT 5499
	  explore
	  move east
	  explore
	  study 120

	UNIT 1269
	  move north
	  stack 5499

	END

The parser tries to be as flexible as possible.  It is case insensitive
and is not strict about spaces on a line, so you may use indentation to
make your orders more readable.

Orders may be commented with the # character.  Everything from a #
to the end of the line will be ignored by the parser:

	  move north	# Head to Drassa to meet up with Osswid
	  stack 5499	# stack with him

No one will read the comments but you.  Neither the GM nor the Olympia
engine will try to interpret them for any reason.

Note that arguments must be enclosed in quotes if they are more
than one word:

	name "Osswid the Constructor"

Orders should be sent to orders@olympia.rt.com.  This is an automatic daemon
which will scan your orders and email and acknowledgement when it has received
them.

The acknowledgement will show any errors that occurred while the orders were
being parsed, and list the current pending commands for all of your units.


Interrupting orders
-------------------

Suppose the turn report shows the following orders queued:

	unit 5499
	   # > study 160 (executing for three more days)
	   recruit 10
	   explore

Sending in new orders for this unit will not disturb the still-running
study command unless the first order is STOP.  For example:

If this were sent in:

	unit 5499
	move south

This would be the result:

	unit 5499
	   # > study 160 (executing for three more days)
	   move south

To interrupt the study and get on with the move right away,
instead send in:

	unit 5499
	stop
	move south

This will show:

	unit 5499
	   # > study 160 (executing for three more days)
	   stop
	   move south

Note that the stop queues like any other order; it does not actually
interrupt the executing command until the turn runs.  This means that
the stop itself can be replaced by sending in another set of orders
later.


Use the order template
----------------------

An order template listing all of the units for a player and showing
any pending orders for those units, appears at the bottom of the turn
sheet:

	Order template
	--------------

	begin 812  # Master Bogomil's Family

	unit 2508  # Tudor
	   # > make 74 (still executing)

	unit 2947  # Milo

	unit 4375  # Beorn
	   # > move s (executing for one more day)
	   pillage
	   recruit

	unit 4763  # Sylvia

	unit 5977  # Drango
	   # > collect 87 0 0 (still executing)
	   sail e
	   sail s
	   fish
	   explore

	unit 5418  # Comte de le Sang

	end

Note that the layout of the order template matches the syntax the order
scanner expects.  Many players find it convenient to edit this template
to add or change commands for their units.  Mail everything from the
"begin" to "end" (inclusive) to the order scanner.  It is wise to save
a copy of the orders you submit in case there are errors and they need
to be resent.


Be careful
----------

Beware of sending in different sets of orders too quickly.  Sometimes
messages sent within a short time of each other will arrive out of order.
This can wreak havoc on your turn if the orders you didn't want end up
being the last in.  Compose your orders offline and review them before
mailing.  A simple typographical error in your orders could ruin your
whole turn!


Other server commands
---------------------

EMAIL address	Change the address to which turn results should be
		sent to the given address.

LORE n		Print out a lore sheet which has appeared in the player's
		turn report before.  Must appear after the BEGIN order.


Olympia Times
-------------

Players may submit articles or notices to the Olympia Times.  These may
be creative stories about your characters, advertisements for goods to
be sold within the game, proclamations, etc.  Generally anything in good
taste with some relevance to the game will be accepted.


Compensation for Errors
-----------------------

What if there's a bug which ruins your whole turn?  What if an error
in the combat system lets all of your men be killed in one day?

	o  I will not re-run turns.

		Turns can't be rerun for one player, the entire simulation
		has to be run for everyone.  This takes some time and
		produces a large amount of data which is mailed out.
		Only for the most serious of game disasters would I
		consider rerunning a turn.

	o  If you are stung by a bug, I may grant items for compensation,
	   but I won't alter the universe.

		I might give you 1,000 gold if you are the victim of some
		heinous bug, or perhaps even an NP, but I won't move a unit
		that should have been in Pactra to Drassa.


Cheating
--------

Players should not have more than one faction in the game.

Players should not send in orders for another player's faction,
to ruin that person's turn or otherwise benefit.

Players should not keep nasty game bugs to themselves so they
can exploit them.


Quitting
--------

To drop out of the game, issue the QUIT order for your player entity.
For instance, player 501 would quit by sending in the following orders:

	begin 501 password
	unit 501		# don't forget UNIT for the player unit!
	quit
	end

No turn report will be sent for the turn in which a player quits.


Auto-drop
---------

Players are automatically dropped after four turns of inactivity.

Inactivity means a player's units execute no new commands. To keep
from being dropped while on vacation, send in enough orders to keep
your units busy while you are away.


More examples
-------------

You can replace orders for some units, but leaves pending orders
for other units alone, by only including UNIT sections for the
ones you want to change.

If you want to see what orders are queued, but not change anything
send in

	begin 999		# whatever your player number is...
	end

To change your email address, send in

	begin 999
	email new@address.com	# give your new address
	end

As a security measure, the confirmation will be sent to both the
new and old addresses.

To change the name of your faction, issue the NAME order for the
faction's player entity:

	begin 999
	unit 999
	name "Seekers of Fame and Power"
	...

Important:  Don't forget the UNIT command for the player entity.


Diplomatic email forwarding service
-----------------------------------

Players can send mail to the player controlling an entity by
mailing to <entity>@olympia.rt.com.

For example, suppose you saw the following characters:

	Seen here:
	   Circe [2225], with three peasants, accompanied by:
	      Hephaestus [3446], with 11 peasants

Circe's lord isn't identified, so you don't know what player is
controlling her.  However, it is still possible to send Circe's
owner a message.  Mail to:

	2225@olympia.rt.com

and the message will be forwarded to whatever player is controlling
Circe [2225].

Forwarding works for character and player entities.  Mail sent to other
entity numbers, or to unaffiliated characters, will be silently discarded.

Forwarded mail is not anonymous.  The original headers on your message will
be preserved.

--
Olympia admin notes v2.0
Wed Nov 10 21:38:12 EST 1993
