
Province control and ownership
==============================

The section for empire-builders:  How to own land and gain status.


Quick overview
--------------

Each province generates a tax base of 300 gold monthly.  This gold may
be PILLAGed, taxed by a castle, or taxed by a garrison.  It does not
accumulate if left uncollected at the end of a turn.

A castle automatically collects all of the gold in its province.

The GARRISON <castle> order installs a group of at least ten soldiers in
a province to claim it and guard against pillaging.  Garrisons must be
bound to a castle.

A garrison pays maintenance for its members from the province tax base,
then forwards 1/5 of the remaining gold to its castle.

The castle owner gains status from the number of provinces under control:

	provinces	rank
	---------	----
	   1-3          lord
           4-8          baron
           9-13         count
          14-19         earl
           20+          duke

A noble may PLEDGE to another noble, granting status and control of owned
provinces.

The status of a noble who pledges is:

	min(original status, one below rank of pledge target)

Control of a province allows one to change its name or the name of any of
its sublocations; take items from the garrison; and issue DECREEs to watch
for certain units, or to attack specified units on sight.

The castle continues to receive the income from garrisoned provinces,
even if the castle's owner is pledged to another noble.

Every noble in the pledge chain shares control of the garrisoned provinces.
In other words, a castle owner may pledge to a noble, who in turn may pledge
to a third noble, etc.  Thus a province may have any number of rulers.

Visitors to a province are informed of the castle to which the garrison
is bound, and the top-most ruler in the pledge chain (which may simply be
the owner of the castle):

   Province controlled by Amber Keep [cy09], castle, in Forest [cj12]
   Ruled by Erekosse [5210], baron
   ...

   Seen here:
      Garrison [780], garrison, on guard, with ten soldiers


Tax base
--------

Each province generates an amount of gold each month.  This "tax base"
may be used to support garrisons, collected by castles, or seized through
pillaging.

Pillaging and opium consumption reduce the future tax base of a province
(see below).

Gold left in the province at the end of the turn does not accumulate.


Castles
-------

Castles are the foundation of land ownership.  A castle collects taxes
from the province it is located in, as well as from garrisons in other
provinces which are bound to the castle.

The owner of a castle automatically receives the remaining tax base from
the castle's province at the end of each month.  If a garrison is stationed
in the same province as a castle, the garrison will first pay maintenance
from the province's tax base, then the castle will collect whatever is left.

Each province may contain only one castle.  The castle must be built in
the outer province or in a city, if the province has one.  (Tax revenue
for the castle is the same no matter where it is built.)  Castles may
not be built inside other sublocations.


Garrisons
---------

A garrison is a force of men stationed in a province to secure and
protect it.  Garrisons guard against pillaging and collect taxes
at the end of each month.

Each garrison must be bound to a castle.  The castle must be located
in the same region.  (Regions are collections of provinces).

A garrison is established with the GARRISON <castle> order.  Ten soldiers
are required to create a garrison.  Additional men may be given to the
garrison once it is created.

The garrison pays the maintenance cost of its men directly from the tax
base of the province.  One-fifth of the remaining tax base is forwarded
to the castle the garrison is bound to.

For example, a garrison of ten soldiers would require 20 gold per month
to support.  This would leave 280 gold remaining in a typical province.
20% of this, or 56 gold, would be forwarded to the owner of the garrison's
castle.

Example:

    > garrison cy09
    Installed Garrison [780], garrison, on guard, with ten soldiers

Visitors to this province would see:

    Province controlled by Amber Keep [cy09], castle, in Forest [cj12]
    Ruled by Erekosse [5210], baron

Note that Erekosse may be located inside the castle, or the castle's
owner may have pledged service to him, in which case Erekosse could be
anywhere.


Garrison reports
----------------

Garrisons do not provide full location reports to their owners.  They do
notice any resource depletion activity, such as timber cutting or mining,
as well as any large or unusual parties which enter their province.  This
includes any stack of five units or more, any part of 20 or more men, and
most monsters or wild beasts.

The DECREE WATCH <who> order may be given by a ruler to instruct all
garrisons to watch for a particular unit.  This is useful for locating
individuals who would otherwise go unnoticed by the garrisons.


Status
------

The number of provinces a noble controls determines his status or rank:

	provinces	rank
	---------	----
	   1-3          lord
           4-8          baron
           9-13         count
          14-19         earl
           20+          duke

In addition, if a character has control over every province in a region,
and the region contains at least 15 provinces, then the character is given
the rank of king.

Provinces may be directly owned, if the noble is the owner of a castle,
or indirectly, through other pledged nobles.


Pledging land
-------------

A noble may PLEDGE his lands to another noble.  This grants the pledge
target status by increasing the number provinces he may rule over.

For example, suppose there are two castle owners, Osswid and Feasel.
Osswid has garrisoned six provinces, and Feasel has three.  Osswid is
therefore a baron, and Feasel is a lord.

If Feasel and Osswid both pledge to Candide, Candide would attain the rank
of Count.  Osswid and Feasel would remain at the same rank in this example.

Candide would receive garrison reports for all provinces which Osswid and
Feasel control.  He would have the same privileges in the controlled
provinces:  he could take items from the garrisons, alter the names of the
provinces or their sublocations, and issue watch and hostile decrees.

However, the income generated by the provinces would continue to be
forwarded to the castles.  No extra income goes to the pledge target.


Status after pledging
---------------------

The status of a noble A who is pledged to another noble B will be either
A's original status, as determined by how many provinces he controls, or
one rank below B, whichever is lower.

For example, a noble with 5 provinces who pledges to a king will
remain a baron.  However, if pledged to another baron, the noble's
rank would fall to lord.


Pillaging
---------

Gangs of ten or more men may use the PILLAGE command to seize loot
from a province or a city.  Pillaging yields 1/3 of the tax base for
a location, and destroys another third.  For example, a location with
a tax base of 300 gold would yield 100 gold to a pillager, and be left
with 100 gold (100 was destroyed by the act of pillaging).

Pillaging has a harmful effect on the future tax revenue of the location.
The more a location has been pillaged, the lower its tax base.  Provinces
and cities take as many months to recover as they have been pillaged.
For example, a city which was pillaged for five months in a row would
take five months to return to its normal tax base.

Pillagers must first defeat any units GUARDing the province, including
any province garrisons.


Opium
-----

Opium is produced in swamp regions, and consumed by markets in desert,
plain, forest, and mountain provinces.  All markets (except those in
swamp regions) have some level of opium demand.  However, this demand
will not be visible in the market report at low levels.

Satisfying opium demand in a market will cause the next month's demand
to be higher.  As peasants become addicted to opium, the increased demand
will be shown in the location's market report.  If no opium is sold to
a market, the demand will fall.

Opium adversely affects the city's tax base.  The more opium the market
buys, the more tax revenues will be reduced.

