
Appendix A:  Notes on Realism
-----------------------------

Game design often requires tradeoffs of realism against playability.
Here the author attempt to justify, or at least apologize for, some
of Olympia's.

    o	The training skills (such as Train peasant to worker) specify
	the time needed to train one man; time to train <n> men is
	linearly proportional.  There are none of the economies of
	scale one would expect to find when teaching groups of men
	with a single instructor, and individual men can be trained
	in unreasonably short periods of time.

	Although this is not very realistic, I felt that there was
	little to be gained from additional modeling in this area,
	and that the potential benefits did not outweight the extra
	complexity necessary in the programming and player rules.


    o	From time to time a player will suggest that Olympia should use
	a hex grid instead of a nodal map.  While many games do make use
	of grid maps, the PBM format makes it difficult to work with that
	fine a level of granularity.

	Olympia's geography is based on subjectively large provinces
	whose contents are all considered to be in more or less the
	same place.  The rule is:

		Units in the same region can interact with each other;
		Units in different regions cannot.

	It is hoped that Olympia's abstract nodal map models the
	important aspects of game geography, while omitting less
	significant details, to enhance playability in the PBM format.


    o   Units in Olympia move by first waiting the duration of the journey
	in the starting location, then instantly jumping to the destination.
	This offends realism in several ways:  One can see units long after
	they have departed; an interrupted movement order instantly brings
	units back to their starting location; and interaction (such as
	combat) is possible with units after they have left.

	Note that some interaction with units, such as giving items and
	stacking, is explicitly prevented after they have begun movement.
	Combat is allowed up until the point a unit has actually moved out
	of a location, however.

	Why not do it another way?

		1)  Make the route a pseudo-location, and allow units to
		    stop part-way across, meet each other on routes, etc.

		2)  Have units go into "hyperspace" for the duration of
		    their journey.

		3)  Have units spend half the time in the original location,
		    and half in the destination.

	Option (1), depending on how it is implemented, either introduces a
	second level of a locality, or a second kind of location.

	If a second level of locality is chosen, then the definition of "in
	the same location" must be expanded to include how far along a
	particular route one is.

	If each sub-route along a journey is a full-fledged location, then
	we have constructed the route from little hexes, but the map has
	a very strange shape.  If we are to choose hexes, then we should
	throw out the nodal route system altogether, and not try to combine
	the two.

	In either case, the rules become too complex and unwieldy.

	Option (2) extends the locality model by saying that a unit may
	be "nowhere"/in transit.  This tends to foul up code that may want
	to know where a unit is.

		If a unit dies in nowhere, where does its dropped items go?
		What is the weather like in nowhere?
		Are two units in nowhere in the same place?
		What does a cast of "Locate character" show for a unit in
			transit?

	Although there may be answers for these questions, they all require
	special case handling in the code.  Often asking unforseen questions
	about a unit in hyperspace results in a program crash.

	Furthermore, hyperspace allows units to easily hide from would-be
	attackers.  To avoid combat, a unit need only stay on the move
	constantly, and no attacker will be able to pin it down.

	The objection to option (3) is that an interrupted movement
	would leave the unit at the destination without having traveled
	the required amount of time.  I also felt that it was slightly
	cleaner to have the special no-interaction rules only for
	one case (departure) instead of for both departure and arrival.

	In a game with hex grids, one doesn't think twice about jump
	movement after a time=4 delay.  Olympia's province routes simply
	take longer to traverse.

	The Olympian movement model is ultimately a tradeoff of simplicity
	vs. realism.  Given the requirements:

		o  One can't cheat by interrupting movement
		o  One can't hide from combat by moving

	additional modeling or complexity in the movement model would add
	little enjoyability to the game.  Thus, it seems best to choose a
	simple movement model.


    o	Players receive province reports from the time they enter until
	the end of the turn, even if they only spent a day there.

	The realistic alternative is for each unit to report what it
	sees:  when a unit enters a location, it generates a report,
	and each unit gets an end-of-month report for the province.

	This quickly leads to a number of redundant reports, or worse,
	a number of subtley different reports for each province.
	



	(Consider an example where one enters a location, leaves, and
	then returns some time later.)

	However, it is tedious work for a player to sort out subtle
	differences between several similar-looking reports for each
	province visited during the turn.  Power players would manually
	process the reports, or develop software tools to assist them.
	Other players, not willing to go to so much work, would be at
	a disadvantage.

	Realism suggests that one only see a location when one is there.
	However, in practice this means a province report would have to
	be generated each time a unit entered a location.  Otherwise,
	some information which units should be aware of would not be
	reported.

