
Referencing entities
--------------------

The Olympian world is made up of many entities, including locations, ships,
nobles, items, skills, spells, magical gates, etc.  All entities have names,
although the names do not have to be unique.  There may be three nobles
named Thorin, and 100 locations called "Dark forest", for example.

Internally, Olympia keeps track of entities by uniquely numbering them.  The
first Thorin might be entity #4582, the second #17019, and the third #23461.

However, remembering (and typing) five digit numbers is annoying for humans.
How, then, do we refer to entities?  Even if entity names were unique, long
names would still pose a problem:

	Bastrestric ther Archymonaged #28953

Having to use either the exact spelling of Bastrestric's full name, or
his computer reference number, seems equally bothersome and error-prone
for players.

Therefore, Olympia associates a short, unique mnemonic tag with every entity.
This tag is given whenever the entity appears in the turn report.  The tag
is used to refer to the entity:

	Bastrestric ther Archymonaged (bta)

In this case, "bta" is Bastrestric's tag.  One would reference Bastrestric
by using his tag in orders.  For example:

	> attack bta
	> pay bta 100
	> stack bta

Entities which share the same are given different tags:

	Seen here:
	   Thorin
	   Thorin (tho)
	   Thorin (tho2)

Note that if a unit's tag exactly matches its name, the tag is not
displayed.  Thus, one would refer to the first Thorin in the list as
"thorin", the second as "tho", and the third as "tho2".

Players can try to change their tags with the TAG command.  Suppose
Thorin (tho2) was not happy with his tag.  He could issue the order:

	TAG tho thor th

The TAG command tries each choice in turn, selecting the first unique
choice to be the new tag.  Since "tho" is already in use, the TAG command
above would change the Thorin's tag to "thor":

	Thorin (tho2)    -->     Thorin (thor)

This change would be announce to all players in the turn report, so
they would know to use the new tag to refer to this Thorin.  The old
tag continues to work for the rest of the turn.

A list of suggested tags may also be given to the FORM and BUILD commands.
For example:

	> form 27556 "Thoring the Brave" thorin th thor tho
	> build castle "Castle Bloodstone" cb cblood

If none of the tags suggested by the player may be used, Olympia will
provide a unique tag.


Tag considerations
------------------

NOTE:  A tag should not be used in the turn in which it is assigned!

For example, suppose one intends to form a unit during the turn:

	> form 27556 "Thoring the Brave" thorin

The player chose the entity reference number 27556 from a list of possible
new units numbers at the top of the turn report.  The correct way to refer
to Thorin during the turn in which he is created is with this number.

Since the tag "thorin" may be already taken, there is no guarantee that
Thorin the Brave will get it.  Also, orders sent in referencing "thorin"
before his tag is assigned will not work.  Don't use an entity's tag until
after it has been assigned.


Tags must be between two and eight characters long.  They must begin with
a letter, and have only letters and numbers in them.

Examples of bad tags:

    illegal tag         reason
    -----------         ------
    9lives		Must begin with a letter
    bastrestric		Too long
    "lady luck"		May only contain letters and numbers
    f-9			May only contain letters and numbers

